why have real-estate prices being kept
artificially high for so long why has
the central bank not reacted accordingly
there have been no policies implemented
since before the financial crisis to act
according to the fundamentals unless we
presume that the information that we
have been provided isn't quite the truth
well you came here for the truth so let
me on the other for you today we're
going to look at real estate prices in
Canada I also want to get into
bankruptcies let's begin does the lack
of bankruptcies in Canada mean that the
Canadian consumer is doing better than
most experts think well much like the
lack of mortgage defaults the Devils in
the details so today we'll look at the
homeowners bankruptcy index which of
course is at an all-time low those in
the financial mainstream media would
purport that this is a good thing but
what you and I we like to look into the
details we like to know the truth and so
we'll do that today when you see this
homeowners bankruptcy index you can then
use that information to tell other
people the truth because you can quickly
search that online and provide the chart
for that person you can provide the
information for that person and then
give them a quick explanation and that
will give them something to think about
the truth is that there is an
artificially low number of bankruptcies
due to homeowners refinancing their debt
and just slapping it on to their
mortgages so this is completely
artificial as they say because it's a
fraud they are buying homes but they
have more debt than ever before in fact
in Canada right now people are literally
in the most debt that they have ever
been in history so let me show you the
chart which goes along with this you can
see that in the past couple years this
has really taken a nosedive
and like I said you'll see it on CNBC
and other news that would project this
is a great thing and if it was a natural
event then perhaps yes that's the case
but it isn't so let's get into the
details right now decline is due to the
rise in home prices all of this
information here remember I didn't write
this but it's gonna sound a lot like me
okay
there's a very simple explanation
Canadians are using their homes like
ATMs withdrawing equity homeowners with
significant unsecured debt are currently
able to refinance this debt through a
second mortgage or home equity line of
credit these are the two schemes that
they're using many many people do this
so if we take the general population of
Canada and let's just say they're
rounded off to 30 million people and you
look at this one basically two million
people are using a home equity line and
when you look at this even more with a
second mortgage so just imagine the
amount of people that are taking on much
more than they can afford and all of
this is riding on the fact that real
estate prices will continue to rise and
let's get into this before I trail off
not exactly signs of booming incomes
that would be the ideal reason to see
the delinquencies decline and that's
exactly what I've talked about they
warned that any softening of the market
that results in a correction of home
values will result in a sudden spike in
homeowners filing for insolvency how
many times have you heard me say that
and then how many times have you seen
people in the comment section deny me
whatever you want to believe that's fine
I know you have a lot riding on the real
estate market I know that you have your
livelihood all in this I know that
people that are simply can't afford it
that have put themselves out there
hoping that real estate prices will
continue
Rize they don't know that when you
refinance when you have to go out and
get another mortgage because you've
probably signed a three-year or
five-year term you're going to be in
trouble and I understand that's bad I'm
not trying to be the bearer of bad news
I'm just trying to bring you the truth
they go on to warn that if this combines
within even a modest rate rise we could
see this index rise above levels
experienced after the 2009 recession and
of course it will Canadians have been
piling on record amounts of debt I
mentioned that and it appears that
they're looking for every possible way
to delay paying it back this is a big
mistake
people don't realize this but look
you've taken on this debt let's just use
the mortgages as an example you have
this you're able to pay for your
mortgage no problem everything is fine
but interest rates are at historic lows
right now so unless you decide that you
want to pay that off before that
mortgage comes due in that three or five
year term you better figure out what
you're going to do are you able to pay
off that mortgage should interest rates
double many people will say you know
they're not going to double that's not
going to happen what if it happens
that's the question I don't know what's
going to happen I can see that they want
them to rise of course if they do let
them rise we're going to be in for some
serious trouble
that's all I know the less equity in
your home the less likely you are to
secure a good mortgage rate renewal
terms worse terms mean higher rates and
that will definitely complicate your
ability to pay your bills on time that's
exactly what I talked about consistently
refinancing your mortgage to accommodate
debt might work now but it's going to be
giving you a precarious position in the
future I'll move on it's pretty clear to
me anyway so this is three charts in a
row that basically get into the total
Canadian loans secured
against residential property just look
in 2016-2017
it has skyrocketed this should be
scaring people but instead it's somehow
used as a beneficial thing as a good
thing and that's what really worries me
I mean everything is just upside down
doesn't make a single ounce of sense to
me anymore you can't do this you can't
take on more debt and expect it not to
be a problem at some point in the future
see if there was just a little bit of
debt let's say you had a credit card and
you took on a thousand dollars of debt
and you couldn't pay it back for
whatever reason I'm sure that something
would happen you could figure it out
okay it's a thousand dollars but a lot
of these people are underwater that will
be underwater of hundreds and hundreds
of thousands of dollars and that's fine
if you make millions of dollars a year
or even hundreds of thousands of dollars
a year but the average person doesn't
that's what I'm concerned about so let
me show you these other ones that are
connected and with that very quickly
here
Canadian loans against residential
property property on a monthly change
you can see that clearly going up but I
wanted to show you this here on a 12
month change we can see that this is
spiked dramatically look at this just as
things started to heat up they
accelerated even faster much much faster
in terms of real estate prices in terms
of the amount of debt that people have
taken on no coincidence there Bob what
do they do they don't care they just
take out a home equity loan it's a
simple matter of fact they'll borrow
more and more money and people do not
care the banks are willing to give that
to you because it allows the system to
continue to expand that's the way it
works you need more and more and more
and more and more debt and then
everything keeps on spinning as soon as
that changes we have a very big problem
so that's all for this video if you
found it informative that I'd ask that
you please give me a thumbs up if you're
from Canada a fellow Canadian here
please
me a thumbs up and if you hate this
image give me a thumbs down give me a
thumbs up you decide so I just wanted to
let you know that I like to do
information of all different cities
countries around the world if you're
just tuning in right now then I would
ask you to subscribe to this because I
will get into the different countries
I've covered various countries and
cities from around the world and focused
videos specific to those places I happen
to be from Toronto but I think that this
is a global show I try to bring out
information for everyone this is an
all-inclusive type of show so please
stay tuned for more and if you found the
video informative I know you'll find my
books the money GPS and my new release
global economic collapse even more
informative take a look in the links in
the description below where you can
actually flip through these books for
yourself
take care